# <div align="center">The Flask App Template</div>

## <div align="center">About</div>

This template contains the basic foundations of a flask app:
- app.py file including imports
- Procfile
- requirements.txt file
- gitignore file

The following steps are required each time you re-start the environment to complete the set-up of the app:
- Install dependencies
- Set up env.py file
- Add any additional requirements

### <div align="center">Installing Dependencies</div>

There are a number of ways to set up a Flask app. In this instance, Flask will run with flask-pymongo, a tool for communications with MongoDB, the DBMS that is used here. In addition, dnspython will be used to assist with queries. The follwing commands, typed into the CLI, will install these requirements:

```cli
pip3 install Flask
pip3 install dnspython
pip3 install flask-pymongo
```

### <div align="center">Setting up the env.py File</div>

Next, you'll need to create the env.py file. This can also be achieved using the CLI.

```cli
touch env.py
```

Once this has been set up, the following python code needs to be added to the env.py file. This code imports os, as standard, then sets up your environment variables. Those in orange are standard, provided you're using the same IP/port and are also using MongoDB. Those with asterisks must be obtained.

The secret key can be generated using a random password generator or set to a chosen string, and will be used within MongoDB to match the app with the database when you select 'config vars' within MongoDB. The URI is generated by MongoDB when you go through the settings within your cluster to 'connect your application' and can be pasted here. Finally, the database name is the exact database name from within your cluster.

*Note, the URI will need to be prepopulated with the cluster password and database name in the appropriate places

```python
import os

os.environ.setdefault("IP", "0.0.0.0")
os.environ.setdefault("PORT", "5000")
os.environ.setdefault("SECRET_KEY", **************)
os.environ.setdefault("MONGO_URI", **************)
os.environ.setdefault("MONGO_DBNAME", **************)
```

### <div align="center">Additional Dependencies</div>

Naturally, there can be many more dependencies you may choose to use. When doing this, just remember to update the requirements.txt file with these new dependencies.

These steps will need repeating each time your environment is closed and reopened as the env.py file is purposefully not pushed to GitHub to protect the details for your database.